URL: https://beijing-emb.mfa.gov.tr/Mission/ShowAnnouncement/203877
ERISIM_TARIHI: 2026-10-07
KAYNAK_KURUM: T.C. Pekin Büyükelçiliği (beijing-emb.mfa.gov.tr) – Duyurular
TARAF: TR
TUR: duyuru
TARIH: 2014-02-20
---
The Final Event of the 2013 Turkish Cultural Year in China

Pekin Büyükelçiliği 20.02.2014

The Final Event of 2013 Cultural Year of Turkey in China will take place on 28th February 2014, Friday, 19:30 at the Beijing Century Theatre ( Address: 21st Century Hotel, 40 Liangmaqiao Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing). The Turkish State Opera and Ballet will stage “The Message of Rumi” inspired from the works of the famous philosopher and humanist Mevlana Celaleddin Rumi.

If you are interested please contact Miss. Jenny, Hao for tickets. Tel: 65321715 ext. 9803, E-mail: haojiayi@hotmail.co.uk.

“The Message of Rumi”

At the Closing Performances of the Year of Turkish Culture in China a ballet production named “The Message of Rumi” choreographed & directed by the renown Turkish choreographer, Mehmet Balkan, will be held in Beijing at the 21st Century Hall on February 28, 2014 and in Shanghai at Oriental Arts Centre Opera Hall on March 3, 2014.

Rumi is a very famous humanist embracing all cultures. Rumi wrote his works in Persian and they were later translated into Turkish and into western languages, English being the first and foremost. The name Rumi became synonymous with “whirl” and “the whirling dervishes”. In contemplation of the fact that depicting Rumi’s life, philosophy and his universalization would be much easier, esthetical and effective through the body language, the librettist and the mastermind of the Project, Mr. Şefik Kahramankaptan has preferred the art of ballet.

Rumi is first and foremost symbolized, in Turkey and in the world, with his very famous message: “Come, come, whoever you are. Come yet again”. Therefore, the ballet was named “The Message “. Afterwards, to enhance the familiarity with the very quote, the name of the ballet was changed into “ The Message of Rumi”.

Libretto

Libretto of the ballet work, “The Message of Rumi”, is built around three main concepts comprising Formation, Message and Transformation, in a way they would reflect slices from Rumi’s life, his philosophy and his universalization. Unlike classical Ballet stories, the scenes are named aiming at providing convenience to the choreographer and to the audience.

Music

The music of “The Message”, upon the librettist’s and choreographer’s requests, was composed by Can Atilla through the definitions given for each dance movement. The composer, who is considered as the one and only as long as the New Age music in Turkey is concerned, has released an album that is predicated on the pieces of music from his work “The Message” has steadily been attracting high demand. One of the most important qualities of this composition, recorded electronically by using an orchestra sound of 110 members and authentic instruments.
