URL: https://www.fmprc.gov.cn/eng/gjhdq_665435/2675_665437/2898_663796/2900_663800/202406/t20240607_11414219.html
ERISIM_TARIHI: 2026-10-07
KAYNAK_KURUM: ÇHC Dışişleri Bakanlığı (fmprc.gov.cn, İngilizce) – Türkiye
TARAF: CN
TUR: görüşme özeti
TARIH: 2018-04-19
---
Xi Jinping Holds Telephone Talks at Request with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey
Updated: April 19, 2018 14:50

On April 19, 2018, President Xi Jinping held telephone talks at request with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey.

Xi Jinping pointed out that in recent years, China-Turkey strategic cooperative relations have maintained stable development with positive results achieved from cooperation in various fields. Both sides should deeply tap potential to push China-Turkey relations for sustained development at higher levels as well as in broader areas. Both sides should maintain high-level exchanges and deepen strategic mutual trust. Both countries should accommodate each other's core concerns, so as to lay a more solid political foundation for bilateral cooperation. Both sides should reinforce the integration of development strategies, elevate the overall level of China-Turkey practical cooperation and well integrate the "Belt and Road" initiative with the "Middle Corridor" initiative. Both sides should enrich people-to-people and cultural exchanges to expand the public opinion foundation of China-Turkey friendship.

Xi Jinping stressed that Turkey has special influence on and plays a special role in relevant major international and regional issues. China and Turkey should continuously intensify communication and coordination on major issues within the framework of multilateral mechanisms such as the United Nations (UN) and the G20, so as to make positive contributions to promoting the building of a new type of international relations as well as the building of a community with a shared future for mankind.

Recep Tayyip Erdogan expressed that Turkey speaks highly of China's maintenance of fairness and justice in international affairs, respect for the diversity of civilizations and adherence to the principle that all countries, big or small, are equal and believes that China's development and prosperity is the cornerstone of the world stability. Turkey is willing to intensify exchanges with China at all levels, supports and stands ready to actively participate in the "Belt and Road" construction and boost cooperation in such areas as economy and trade, energy, infrastructure and tourism. Turkey firmly opposes terrorist forces including the East Turkistan Islamic Movement and will never allow these forces to undermine social stability in all countries including Turkey and China.

The two heads of state also exchanged views on the current situation in Syria. Xi Jinping expounded on China's principle and stance on the Syrian issue and stressed that all relevant parties should take actions within the framework of international law, comply with the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, as well as respect sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of every country.

Recep Tayyip Erdogan expressed that Turkey attaches great importance to China's important influence on the political settlement of the Syrian issue, and is willing to strengthen communication and coordination with China on relevant issues.
