URL: https://beijing-emb.mfa.gov.tr/Mission/ShowSpeech/13910
ERISIM_TARIHI: 2026-10-07
KAYNAK_KURUM: T.C. Pekin Büyükelçiliği (beijing-emb.mfa.gov.tr) – Büyükelçi Konuşmaları
TARAF: TR
TUR: konuşma
TARIH: 2020-09-28
---
The speech of H.E. Abdulkadir Emin Onen at the Xi'an World Culture and Tourism Forum

Sayın Büyükelçimiz Abdulkadir Emin Önen 28.09.2020

Honorable Secretary Wang Hao,

Distinguished Heads of International Organizations,

Dear guests,

Ladies and gentlemen,

First, I would like to thank Mr. Secretary for giving me this opportunity to deliver a speech to such a distinguished audience.

I would like to start my speech by pointing out that, Turkey has a total of 18 precious cultural and natural sites inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List as of 2020. And a vast area of İstanbul’s historical part, Suleymaniye quarter with Suleymaniye Mosque complex, Archaeological Park at the tip of the Historic peninsula, the Zeyrek area and land walls are all inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List.

I think that, tourism differs from other commercial activities with its multi-dimensional profoundness. It cannot be confined to just having bed and food. Rather, it is a search for unknown experiences of various aspects, natural, historical, cultural, intellectual, or emotional. Hence, these experiences enrich visitors’ perspectives on life.

And destinations, which offer deeper understanding and feeling of life’s mysterious aspects come to the fore. In this presentation, I will try to put forth some aspects of the most prominent destinations of my country, which offers a deeper understanding and perspective of cultural and historical richness of humanity.

While talking about cities famous with its cultural richness, İstanbul, one of the most glorious cities in the world, obviously deserves a great attention. I am sure that each of you in this venue has heard about its rightful reputation one way or another.

Yet, I would like to take this opportunity to present once again İstanbul’s invaluable characteristics, which made it one of the most magnificent cities in the world.

The latest discoveries indicate that the history of human habitation in the city goes back thousands of years. İstanbul is the only city situated on two continents in the world, one arm reaching out to Asia and the other to Europe, where mosques, churches and synagogues exist side by side as a symbol of tolerance and fraternity of religions.

That is to say, the city is not just located on the two continents geographically, but it also reflects various aspects of multiple cultures living on those continents.

As the city combines the two continents, it also brings together the Black Sea and the Mediterranean. The histories of those seas also flow through the Bosphorus with those waters.

At every turn in the city one can happen upon the ruins of gorgeous civilizations such as Romans, Byzantines and Ottomans. With its rich history and enchanting natural beauty, Istanbul has been a huge source of inspiration, fascinating its visitors.

Countless number of poems and songs have been produced throughout history, in an effort to capture and describe those beauties.

Building on its assets inherited from a glorious past, Istanbul is an international city with a financial and economic center offering services in banking, telecommunications, marketing, and particularly tourism. International conferences and festivals, fairs, sports and art performances add new dimensions to the attractiveness of the city.

For sure, İstanbul is not the only historical city of my country. There are plenty of cities in Turkey with a cultural heritage rooted in history. Because of time restriction, I would like to briefly mention some of the prominent cultural historical cities here.

For example, with its plentiful fairy-chimneys, formed by the wind and the rain water through millions of years, Cappadocia is one of the most visited places in Turkey particularly by Chinese tourists. There are hundreds of churches carved in the rocks and hundreds of underground cities in the surrounding area.

Dating back 12 thousand years, the first temple of the world, Göbeklitepe is regarded by many scientists as the most significant archaeological discovery of the 21st century. In order to emphasize the importance of this archeological discovery, I think it would be sufficient to say that it’s nearly 8 thousand years older than the pyramids and 7 thousand years older than the Stonehenge.

I proudly announce here that this place, where the history has begun, is located in Şanlıurfa, the city where my hometown is.

The city is famous not only for Göbeklitepe, but also for its history of prophets such as Abraham, Jacop and Jethro. The old city of Harran, which is mentioned in the Bible, is also located in Şanlıurfa. I would be pleased to host you in my hometown.

The other well-known top touristic destination in Turkey is Antalya. While Antalya is famous for its beautiful coasts and natural beauties, it also has countless historical artifacts. Demre, the birthplace of St. Nicholas, Perge and Aspendos are just a few examples of Antalya’s cultural heritage.

Konya is another important historical city in the middle of Anatolia. Dating back to 7400BC, Çatalhöyük is renowned as one of the earliest settlements of the Neolithic era, shedding light on the dawn of human settlement with unique examples of the earliest domestic architecture and landscape painting as well as sacred objects of the mother-goddess cult.

Konya is also known for its Whirling Dervishes, reflecting mystic Sufi tradition created by Mevlana Celaleddini Rumi, who has handed down an interpretation of İslamic belief from the point of love. I believe that the verses below summarizing his tenet is quite significant for the world peace and deserves to be mentioned here:

Whoever you may be, come

Even though you may be

An infidel, a pagan, or a fire-worshipper, come

Our brotherhood is not one of despair

Though you have broken

Your vows of repentance a hundred times, come.

That is to say, sometimes touristic visits offer feasts for our eyes. But sometimes it calls out to our souls and minds. Cultural destinations do both of them.

There are surely plenty of destinations in Turkey offering deeper experiences to our eyes, ears, and minds. However, the time allocated to me on this floor limits my desire to present you all of those beauties of my country. Therefore, I will confine myself to the above presentation and will comment on the tourism development dimension a bit.

I would like to put particular emphasis on the sustainability of tourism development. Sustainable tourism is aimed at minimizing the negative effects of tourism development in any community and environment. In this approach, protection of both the natural and the cultural environment while increasing the qualities of the tourism services, is of primary importance.

We all have the responsibility to the future generations, while meeting the needs of our economy and society.

With a 7,200 km of coastline, Turkey is the third country in the world having more than 485 blue flag beaches. This number is an indication of the environmental management quality of Turkey, in terms of sustainable tourism development.

In line with this sensitivity, Turkey launched an extensive awareness of safe tourism in face of the pandemic. As one of the first countries to launch “Safe Tourism Certification” Program in the world, Turkey is taking serious measures.

The Safe Tourism Certification, covers a broad range of safety measures in transport, accommodation, and health conditions for tourists in Turkey. The certificate, issued by international certification institutions, validates the execution of strict health and hygiene requirements at airlines, airports, and other transport facilities, as well as in accommodation, food and beverage venues.

Turkey also offers special travel insurance packages for international tourists to cover COVID-19 related expenses.

From a Turkish-Chinese tourism perspective, despite the sharp rises in the number of Chinese visitors to Turkey for the last two years, it is still below our expectations. In 2019, Turkey hosted over 500,000 Chinese tourists. After the pandemic, we aim at increasing this number up to one million. Bearing in mind that Turkey hosts more than 45 million visitors every year, 1 million Chinese visitors could be regarded as quite low.

To sum up, Turkey is the 6th most preferred tourist destination in the world and 4th in Europe, according to UNWTO’s data.

Its strategy is fundamentally based on the sustainability of tourism and aims at providing the highest quality of services in every area of the sector which addresses the needs of the visitors while at the same time safeguarding generations from the detrimental effects of unsustainable tourism practices.

In line with this strategy, safety now stands on the top of our tourism agenda and every effort is exerted to make visitors feel safe and comfortable.

We take tourism not just as a simple commercial activity, instead, a favorable way of sharing and exchanging cultural values, thoughts and ideas which would contribute to whole of humanity, at the end of the day.

In this endeavor, we are truly eager to cooperate with our partners, private, state and international institutions. UNWTO is performing a great job in this respect to ensure a responsible and sustainable tourism.

I would like to thank Mr. Secretary for his invaluable work and to those supporting him in those efforts.

Thank you for listening.
