URL: https://beijing-emb.mfa.gov.tr/Mission/ShowSpeech/13937
ERISIM_TARIHI: 2026-10-07
KAYNAK_KURUM: T.C. Pekin Büyükelçiliği (beijing-emb.mfa.gov.tr) – Büyükelçi Konuşmaları
TARAF: TR
TUR: konuşma
TARIH: 2020-12-23
---
HE Ambassador Önen's address at the ceremony to celebrate the arrival of the first east-bound export train from Turkey to China

Abdulkadir Emin Önen 23.12.2020

Distinguished officials of Shaanxi Province and Xi'an City,

Distinguished Executives and Members of Xi’an International Trade and Logistics Park Authority and China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT) of Shaanxi,

Representatives of the Business Community,

Dear Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen,

As the Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey in Beijing, I feel honored to address you today at this ceremony to celebrate the arrival of the first east-bound export train from Turkey to China.

The train, which recently arrived to Xi’an from Çerkezköy near Istanbul in just over two weeks, followed the Trans Caspian East-West Middle Corridor by passing through two continents, two seas,five countries and covering almost 8,700 kilometers.

The second east-bound train has also departed a few days ago and is expected to reach here after the New Year.

It will not be wrong to state that his joyous occasion marks the revival of the historical ties between Turkey and China.

Xi’an, as the eastern end to the Silk Road and former capital of China, was once the meeting and melting point of ancient Turks and Chinese, as well as of many others, for social and commercial interactions.

Our ancestors were well aware of the importance of safe and stable transport routes for enhancing economic activities. That is why they created a Road that enabled the transportation of goods between Asia and Europe.

Today, after many centuries, we again follow their path. We are building a modern Silk Road, with the opportunities provided by technology and modernization.

Indeed, the launch of the direct flights between Xi’an and Istanbul in December 2019 was also very beneficial for this connectivity. We hope that these flights soon resume as the pandemic comes to an end.

At this point, I would like to once again convey my special thanks to His Excellency Hu Heping, Minister of Culture and Tourism and former Governor and Party Secretary of Shaanxi Province, for his continuous support.

Mr. Hu has played an indispensable role in the launch of Istanbul-Xi’an flights and in the realization of the freight train project. He also immensely contributed to various dimensions of Turkish-Chinese relations.

We have no doubt that we will maintain the same level of fruitful cooperation with his successors, His Excellency Mr. Liu Guozhong and His Excellency Mr. Zhao Yide.

Dear Guests,

The railway connection between China and Europe became even more vital in the pandemic era as freight trains play a crucial role in stabilizing the international logistics supply chain.

Turkey’s strategic location at the intersection of the European, Middle Eastern and African markets has a crucial role in strengthening business resilience. It provides safe, stable and fast supply chains.

In this backdrop, Turkey is rapidly improving her connectivity with the rest of world; not only by economic means such as her almost quarter-century-old Customs Union with the EU but also by developing her transportation infrastructure:

-We have already become the 8th High Speed Railway (HSR) operating country in the world.

-We are constructing Edirne-Kars High Speed Train Network covering Turkey from west to east. It will enable faster and cheaper transport from China and Central Asia to Europe.

-Istanbul New Airport, Yavuz Sultan Selim, Osman Gazi, 1915 Çanakkale Bridges, Eurasia Tunnel and Marmaray, highways, maritime ports, logistics hubs are also vital pillars of this growing hybrid transportation network of Turkey.

And some of these recent mega-construction projects in Turkey are materialized with Chinese partnership, and more are being planned.

Distinguished Participants,

Turkey has been one of the earliest supporters of the Belt and Road Initiative. Our Middle Corridor Initiative has a natural complementarity with the BRI.

Therefore, Turkey and China have common views and interests for deepening regional economic cooperation on the vast Eurasian landmass via transport corridors.

Further use of the railway connection between Turkey and China will accelerate economic activities across Eurasia:

It will also be beneficial for our bilateral economic relations as Turkish and Chinese products will be more easily delivered through these freight trains.

Highly qualified Turkish brands and products, which are well sought-after in many parts of the world, will become more available in the Chinese market.

A shining example is our agricultural products, of which Turkey is leading the global production in many sub-items: Last year, our agricultural exports to China increased by 62.5%.

Our bilateral trade volume has almost reached to 22 billion USD last year, from just 1 billion USD 20 years ago. China has thus become Turkey’s third biggest trade partner.

While this may seem a noteworthy progress, it is not sufficient considering our enormous potential.

We are therefore committed to deepen and enhance our strategic cooperation in 2021, which marks the 50th anniversary of the establishment of our diplomatic relations.

The joint visions and determination of President Erdoğan and President Xi clearly guide us in this direction.

While concluding my remarks, I would like to extend my heartfelt congratulations to the organizers of this ceremony and also to everyone who made this train journey, “once a distant dream”, possible.

Thank you. Xie xie.
