URL: https://beijing-emb.mfa.gov.tr/Mission/ShowSpeech/14535
ERISIM_TARIHI: 2026-10-07
KAYNAK_KURUM: T.C. Pekin Büyükelçiliği (beijing-emb.mfa.gov.tr) – Büyükelçi Konuşmaları
TARAF: TR
TUR: konuşma
TARIH: 2023-10-25
---
Speech by Ambassador H.E Dr. İsmail Hakkı Musa delivered in Xian Silk Road International Communication Forum

Dr. İsmail Hakkı Musa 25.10.2023

H.E. Fu Hua, President of Xinhua News Agency,

H.E. Zhao Yide, Secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Shaanxi Provincial Committee,

H.E. Phinij Jarusombat, Former Vice Prime Minister of Thailand,

Distinguished Ambassadors and Members of the Diplomatic Corps,

Ladies and Gentlemen,

It is my honor to participate in the Silk Road International Communication Forum.

I am glad to visit Xi’an for the first time on this occasion.

Xi’an, as the eastern end of the Silk Road and the former capital of China, was once the meeting and melting point of various people, including the ancient Chinese and Turks.

Our ancestors were aware of the importance of safe and stable transport routes in people-to-people exchange and economic activities.

The ancient Silk Road surely enabled this interaction between Asia and Europe.

For instance, starting from the time of Ming Dynasty, Ottoman and Chinese Emperors have exchanged various precious gifts through the Silk Road.

It is known from historic archives that Ottoman Empire have dispatched several envoys to China in this regard carrying with them gifts including lions as well as weaponry such as Ottoman rifles.

The Emperors of China have also sent invaluable porcelain as gifts to the Sultans of Ottoman Empire.

Therefore, Topkapı Palace in Istanbul has the second largest porcelain collection in the world.

Türkiye has always been an integral part of Asia’s historic, linguistic and cultural sphere throughout history, and today, it continues to function as the gateway between Asia and Europe.

In 2019, Türkiye announced the “Asia Anew Initiative” to enhance relations among Asian countries on the basis of common interests and objectives.

China is naturally located at the core of this Initiative.

Under this initiative, Türkiye aims to broaden perspectives of mutually beneficial cooperation with its Asian counterparts in economic, political, socio-cultural and economic dimensions.

Situated at a unique location at the crossroads of Europe, Asia and Africa, Türkiye prioritizes increased connectivity and economic cooperation to ensure peace, stability and sustainable development.

The Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), proposed by His Excellency Xi Jinping a decade ago; embraces the historic trend of economic globalization and addresses countries’ development needs for modernization.

The effectiveness of this initiative until today as well as future prospects for further cooperation was clearly emphasized during the 3rd Belt and Road Forum that was successfully convened in Beijing last week.

Türkiye has supported this important Initiative from the very beginning.

Both Türkiye and China very much understand the importance of the multidimensional connectivity in today’s world.

In this respect, Türkiye has keen interest in the modern revival of the Ancient Silk Road.

This is why we put forth the Middle Corridor initiative, which starts from Türkiye in the west, and after crossing the Caucasus, the Caspian Sea and the Central Asian Republics, reaches China.

This initiative is in natural harmony with the BRI.

In 2015, we have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with China, to align the two initiatives in order to avoid duplications, raise efficiencies and increase our cooperation.

Together with the BRI, the Middle Corridor provides uninterrupted and increased access to the Black Sea and Mediterranean basins, as well as to Europe and Africa.

As part of this shared vision, we launched the first east-bound export train from Türkiye to China in December 2020 which arrived in this beautiful city Xi’an.

Ladies and Gentlemen,

I would like to point out that the Turkish-Chinese relations have gained significant momentum across various domains in the recent years.

China is Türkiye’s largest trading partner in Asia and third largest in the world with a trade volume reaching 45 billion USD.

Our strong relationship with China is not limited to trade.

Media is another field that we need to enhance cooperation.

We often observe that certain third party’s media organs may distort the wordings and images when broadcasting news about a country.

To better understand and obtain unhindered information about each other, it is important to use our own media channels.

This will dispel misconceptions, counteract propaganda and prevent the spread of false information.

We are pleased to have established such a partnership with China. For instance, Türkiye’s mainstream news channel NTV and China Media Group have already worked together on several occasions.

Moreover, CRI, which is part of China Media Group has a radio channel in Türkiye for 10 years.

Our national broadcaster TRT and national news agency Anadolu Agency have representatives in Beijing, who collect and convey unhindered information about the developments in China to the Turkish public.

It would be mutually beneficial if a closer cooperation between these Turkish media corporations and their Chinese counterparts, such as Xinhua news agency and CCTV, is established.

On 10 October, I attended China Media Group’s "A Symphony of Mountains and Seas" Ceremony.

Together with other participants, we have launched a new phase of cooperation among the BRI countries in the media domain. We wish to build more on that.

Ladies and Gentlemen,

In today’s world, people-to-people interaction is as important as diplomacy when it comes to relations between countries.

Tourism, in this sense, is the most direct means of such an interaction.

I personally attach particular importance and give priority to developing Turkish-Chinese relations in the field of tourism as well.

I believe that Türkiye, as the 4th most popular tourist destination in the world, features vast attractions for Chinese tourists.

In this vein, I hope that the resumption of Turkish Airlines’ Xi’an-İstanbul direct flights will provide an excellent opportunity for the people of Xi’an city, Shaanxi and neighbouring provinces to discover and explore what Türkiye offers.

And vice-versa, I hope more Turkish tourists will visit the historic city of Xi’an treasuring house of relics and ancient sites, as the cradle of Chinese civilization.

I have no doubt that in the future, strong historical ties between the Silk Road Countries will further broaden in all these areas and the journey of joint development will enable greater prosperity to us all!

Thank you!
