URL: https://eng.yidaiyilu.gov.cn/p/0TQ0A7UC.html
ERISIM_TARIHI: 2026-10-07
KAYNAK_KURUM: Kuşak ve Yol Portalı (eng.yidaiyilu.gov.cn) — Xinhua kaynaklı; resmi yayın organı/ajans
TARAF: CN
TUR: görüşme özeti
TARIH: 2025-05-06
---
Interview: Türkiye invites Chinese tourists to explore new travel experiences, says minister
Updated: May 6, 2025

ISTANBUL, May 6 (Xinhua) -- Türkiye is keen to significantly enhance its tourism services by offering diverse experiences and aims to attract 1 million Chinese tourists by the end of this year, Turkish Minister of Culture and Tourism Mehmet Nuri Ersoy said in a written interview with Xinhua.

"We are working on many initiatives in the tourism sector simultaneously to ensure that our Chinese guests can experience the beauty of our country, feel at home, and host more and more Chinese guests every year," Ersoy said.

According to data from the ministry, Türkiye has seen a sharp increase in the number of Chinese tourists in recent years. In 2024, nearly 410,000 Chinese tourists visited the country, marking a nearly 65 percent increase from the previous year.

Outdoor and scenic tours remain the most popular themes, while food experiences, cultural and historical sites, beach resorts and wellness tourism also draw strong interest among Chinese tourists, he said.

"In response, Türkiye is spotlighting a broader array of destinations, including Silk Road routes that span the country, and offering unique experiences such as Night Museums and gastronomic tours," Ersoy said.

Situated at the crossroads of Europe and Asia, Türkiye boasts world-renowned destinations such as Istanbul, its vibrant cultural hub; Cappadocia in central Anatolia, famed for its unique fairy chimneys; and Pamukkale, celebrated for its thermal travertine terraces.

The minister also pointed out that Türkiye is enhancing its infrastructure to better cater to Chinese visitors, such as offering Chinese-language support.

"Istanbul airport, which is the entry point for our Chinese visitors, holds the China Friendly certification," he said. "Additionally, we continue our efforts to offer Chinese language courses in Tourism Vocational Schools and increase the number of Chinese-speaking tour guides."

The ministry also created active accounts on social platforms which allow Türkiye to engage directly with Chinese travelers and promote the country's diverse tourism offerings, Ersoy added.

A total of 21 sites in Türkiye are inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List. According to Ersoy, these historical landmarks that bear the legacy of great civilizations offer Chinese tourists a truly unique and unforgettable cultural experience.

"We look forward to welcoming more Chinese friends to Türkiye," Ersoy said, adding that he hopes they can personally experience the country's rich culture and renowned hospitality.
