URL: https://www.fmprc.gov.cn/eng/gjhdq_665435/2675_665437/2898_663796/2900_663800/202509/t20250901_11699298.html
ERISIM_TARIHI: 2026-10-07
KAYNAK_KURUM: ÇHC Dışişleri Bakanlığı (fmprc.gov.cn, İngilizce) – Türkiye
TARAF: CN
TUR: görüşme özeti
TARIH: 2025-08-31
---
President Xi Jinping Meets with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan
Updated: August 31, 2025 20:35

On the afternoon of August 31, President Xi Jinping met at the Tianjin Guest House with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, who is in China to attend the Shanghai Cooperation Organization Summit 2025.

President Xi noted that China and Türkiye are both major emerging countries and important members of the Global South. Both countries uphold the spirit of independence. The high-level development of China-Türkiye relations serves the fundamental interests of the two countries and the common interests of the Global South. The two countries need to follow the trend of the times featuring peace, development, cooperation and mutual benefit, help each other succeed on the path toward national prosperity, take the China-Türkiye strategic cooperative relationship to new heights, and work together for a more just and equitable global governance system.

Noting that next year marks the 55th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between China and Türkiye, President Xi called on the two sides to take this opportunity to bring bilateral relations to a new level. First, we need to cement political mutual trust, offer mutual support on issues concerning each other’s core interests and major concerns, and enhance counterterrorism and security cooperation. Second, we need to deepen practical cooperation, enhance the synergy between the Belt and Road Initiative and the Middle Corridor Initiative, advance the development of the southbound passage of the China-Europe Railway Express, upgrade cooperation in such traditional areas as economy and trade, culture and tourism, and foster new highlights of cooperation in new energy, 5G, biomedicine and other fields. Third, we need to strengthen multilateral coordination, maintain close coordination within the United Nations, the G20, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and other frameworks, jointly uphold the international order and rules, defend international fairness and justice, and contribute to world peace and stability.

President Erdoğan said that Türkiye places high importance on growing relations with China. It hopes to have close high-level exchanges with China, jointly pursue high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, increase the level of trade and investment, enhance cooperation in infrastructure, new energy, agriculture, food, healthcare and other fields, promote people-to-people and cultural exchanges in education, tourism and other areas, and achieve strong and sustained growth of bilateral relations. Türkiye will be firmly committed to the one-China principle. The Shanghai Cooperation Organization is about to hold the largest summit since its founding. Türkiye is ready to strengthen cooperation with China within the SCO and promote the development and prosperity of the region and the world. Türkiye appreciates China’s just position on Middle East issue and is ready to work with China to uphold international fairness and justice.

Cai Qi, Wang Yi, and Chen Min’er, among others, were present at the meeting.
